Stellaris RNA FISH Sequential IF + FISH in Adherent Cells Protocol
Grow cells on 18 mm round # 1 coverglass in a 12-well cell culture plate.
Add 1 mL of fixation buffer.
Incubate at room temperature for 10 minutes.
Wash twice with 1 mL of 1X PBS.
To permeabilize, immerse cells in 1 mL of 0.1 % Triton X-100 in 1X PBS for 5 minutes at room temperature.
Wash with 1 mL of 1X PBS.
Add 1 mL of appropriately diluted primary antibody in 1X PBS.
Incubate at room temperature for 1 hour.
Wash with 1 mL of 1X PBS for 10 minutes, and repeat 2 more times.
Add 1 mL of appropriately diluted secondary antibody in 1X PBS.
Incubate at room temperature for 1 hour.
Wash with 1 mL of 1X PBS for 10 minutes, and repeat 2 more times.
Add 1 mL of fixation buffer.
Incubate at room temperature for 10 minutes.
Wash twice with 1 mL of 1X PBS.
If frozen before using, warm the reconstituted probe solution to room temperature.
Mix well by vortexing, then centrifuge briefly.
To prepare the Hybridization Buffer containing probe, add 1 L of probe stock solution to 100 L of Hybridization Buffer, and then vortex and centrifuge (enough for one coverglass).
This creates a working probe solution of 125 nM.
This solution will be used on steps 20 and 21.
Aspirate the 1X PBS off the coverglass containing adherent cells within the 12-well plate.
stellarisAdd 1 mL of Wash Buffer A (see recipe above), and incubate at room temperature for 2-5 minutes.
Assemble humidified chamber : 150 mm tissue culture plate ; bottom lined evenly with a flat water-saturated paper towel and a single layer of Parafilm placed on top of the paper towel.
This chamber will help prevent evaporation of the probe solution from under the coverglass.
Within the humidified chamber, dispense 100 L of the Hybridization Buffer containing probe onto the Parafilm.
Gently transfer the coverglass, cells side down, onto the 100 L drop of Hybridization Buffer containing probe.
Cover the humidified chamber with the tissue culture lid, and seal with Parafilm.
Incubate in the dark at 37 C for at least 4 hours (Incubation can be continued up to 16 hours).
Gently transfer the coverglass, cells side up, to a fresh 12-well plate containing 1 mL of Wash Buffer A.
Incubate in the dark at 37 C for 30 minutes.
Aspirate Wash Buffer A, and then add 1 mL of DAPI nuclear stain (Wash Buffer A consisting of 5 ng/mL DAPI) to counterstain the nuclei.
Incubate in the dark at 37 C for 30 minutes.
Aspirate the DAPI staining buffer, and then add 1 mL of Wash Buffer B. Incubate at room temperature for 2-5 minutes.
Add a small drop (approximately 15 L) of Vectashield Mounting Medium onto a microscope slide, and mount coverglass onto the slide, cells side down.
Gently wick away excess anti-fade from the perimeter of the coverglass.
Seal the coverglass perimeter with clear nail polish, and allow to dry.
If necessary, gently wipe away any dried salt off the coverglass using water.
Proceed to Imaging.
