NUCLEIC dotMETRIC
For double stranded DNA, use undiluted Nucleic Acid Dilution Buffer.
For RNA or oligos, dilute the Nucleic Acid Dilution Buffer 100 fold.
i.e. Use 1 l Nucleic Acid Dilution Buffer in 99 l ultrapure water.
Dilute samples at least 1:1 with the appropriate Dilution Buffer.
Open the NUCLEIC Test Strip box, remove a strip, and peel away the protective sheets using the forceps provided.
Attach the white NUCLEIC Strip to the application board with the side magnets.
Apply 1 5 l of the diluted samples to the Test Strip using one of these two methods (or see the Guidelines for using G Biosciences Spot Application Device) :
Free Drop Method Of Application Squeeze the pipette plunger until a drop is formed at the tip of the pipette tip.
Lower the drop until it touches the Test Strip.
The nucleic acid solution drop will immediately spread on the Test Strip.
dotMETRIC Application Method.
Apply sample by point of contact capillary action.
Use pipette tips with an outside bore diameterof 0.6 0.7 mm (Cat. # 786 64).
Keep the pipette tip straight up and allow the capillary action of the strip to draw the sample from the pipette tip (see figure below).
Do not use the plunger to force the solution out.
NOTE : Accurately pipetting 1 l requires skill and caution.
A deviation of up to 20 % could be due simply to pipetting errors.
In addition, applying more than > 1 l or multiple spots are sometimes slow & tedious.
Samples do not need to dry before adding NUCLEIC Dye.
Place the NUCLEIC strip in a developing tray (Cat. # 786 024) or other small dish.
Apply 0.5ml NUCLEIC Dye directly to the strip.
Incubate at room temperature for 1 minute without shaking or rocking.
Discard the NUCLEIC Dye and rinse the strip for 10 seconds in 50ml ultra pure water.
Discard the rinse and wash with 50ml ultra pure water for 30 60 seconds or until the blue background disappears.
Remove the strip from the second wash as soon as the blue background disappears.
For Free Drop Method : Compare the color of the test sample spot with the dotMETRIC Standard provided.
For dotMETRIC Application : Use the NUCLEIC dotMETRIC scale to determine the concentration of the diluted sample.
If a dot is not symmetrical measure both the widest and narrowest points of the dot and average.
